README.md, before:

#### Repository for: A novel method for tracking microswimmers in 3D

The authors of the code in this repository are Hadi Albalkhi* and Max Riekeles*.
Contact: riekeles@tu-berlin.de

_* Both authors contributed to the code in equal shares._

## Prerequisites
- Python 3.8
- Python packages:
    - numpy
    - opencv2
    - matplotlib
- For generating the MHI refer to the [OWLS-repository](https://github.com/JPLMLIA/OWLS-Autonomy)
- Datasets described in the paper can be found here:
    - [Raw holograms frames of Bacillus Subtilis at different temperatures](https://doi.org/10.5061/dryad.ns1rn8pv6)
    - [Dataset for “Identifying and Characterizing Motile and Fluorescent Microorganisms in Microscopy Data Using Onboard Science Autonomy”](https://doi.org/10.48577/jpl.2KTVW5)

After the reconstructions of the holograms have been generated, a typical run of the code is:

1. Create maximum z-projections
2. Create MHI (with [OWLS-repository](https://github.com/JPLMLIA/OWLS-Autonomy)) from the maximum z-projections
3. Perform blob detection in the maximum z-projections at each time point
4. Apply region growing to the MHI (either manually or with automatic seedpoint selection)
5. Apply Z-layer selection 
   1. apply DBSCAN if necessary.
   2. apply time filtering if necessary.
6. 3D Plot

## Max Z-Projection

Calculates the maximum projection through the Z stack of reconstructed holograms for the given range of timepoints.

### Usage

- the script assumes that `<reconstructions>`:
    - contains multiple folders for each timepoint of the recorded experiment.
    - each folder contains the reconstruction of the hologram at the corresponding timepoint.
    - the folder names are five-digit numbers  `xxxxx` (with leading zeros where needed) which represent the
      timestamps.
      The timestamps will be written to the resulting filenames and will be used in consequent processing steps (blob
      detection for instance).

- example run:
  ```
  python max_z_projections.py \
    --dataset ds1 --reconstructions /ds1/reconstructions \
    --output-dir /path/to/output \
    --z-start-plane -200 \
    --z-end-plane 200 \
    --end-timepoint 851
  ```
- results will be saved to `<output_dir>/` (or per default to `./<data_set>_max_z_projection_results` &Dagger;) and the
  max Z-projection filenames will be in the form:
  `max_z_projection_zs_<z_start_plane>_ze_<z_end_plane>_<z_plane_jump_steps>_<timestamp>.tif`

### Parameters Overview

| Argument                | Short | Required | Default Value | Description                                                                                |
|-------------------------|-------|----------|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--reconstructions`     | `-r`  | Yes      | N/A           | Path to reconstructions of the holograms - contains folders of all timepoints              |
| `--dataset`             | `-d`  | Yes      | N/A           | Name of the dataset of the recorded experiment - used only for naming the resulting files. |
| `--output-dir`          | `-o`  | No       | &Dagger;      | Path to the directory where the results will be stored                                     |
| `--start-timepoint`     | `-ts` | No       | `1`           | A number representing the start timepoint of the range to be considered                    |
| `--end-timepoint`       | `-te` | Yes      | N/A           | A number representing the end timepoint of the range to be considered                      |
| `--z-start-plane`       | `-zs` | Yes      | N/A           | Z-plane start value                                                                        |
| `--z-end-plane`         | `-ze` | Yes      | N/A           | Z-plane end value                                                                          |
| `--z-plane-jump-steps`  | `-zj` | No       | `1`           | Z-plane jump steps                                                                         |
| `--zeros-padding-width` | -     | No       | `5`           | Zeros padding width of folder names of reconstructed timepoints                            |

## Blob Detection

This script applies OpenCV SimpleBlobDetector on provided max Z-projection images and save the results as NumPy
  array files (`.npy`).

### Usage

- the script requires `<max_z_projections>` to contain the max Z-projections image files with a specific naming format
  as described in max Z-projection above:
  `some_file_name_xxxxx.tif`
  where `xxxxx` is a five-digit number (with leading zeros where needed) which represents the timestamp.
    - this is important because the script will extract the timestamp i.e. the value of the time frame out of the
      filename.
- example run:

  ```
  python blob_detection.py \
      --dataset ds1 \
      --max-z-projections /ds1/projections 
  ```
- results will be saved to `<output_dir>/` (or per default to `./<data_set>_blob_detection_results` &Dagger;) as NumPy
  array files (`.npy`).
  Each blob is itself an array of the form:

  `[x, y, timestamp, <diameter_of_detected_blob>]`

### Parameters Overview

| Argument              | Short | Required | Default Value | Description                                                                                     |
|-----------------------|-------|----------|---------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--max-z-projections` | `-p`  | Yes      | N/A           | Path to the max Z-projection files of all time points.                                          |
| `--dataset`           | `-d`  | Yes      | N/A           | Name of the dataset of the MHI, used only for naming the resulting track segment.               |
| `--output-dir`        | `-o`  | No       | &Dagger;      | Path to the directory where the results will be stored.                                         |
| `--min-area`          | -     | No       | `60`          | Change the minimum area (in pixels) of blobs, smaller blobs will be filtered out (default: 60). |
| `--max-area`          | -     | No       | `300`         | Change the maximum area (in pixels) of blobs, larger blobs will be filtered out (default: 300). |
| `--max-threshold`     | -     | No       | `255`         | Change the maxThreshold value for openCV SimpleBlobDetector (default: 255).                     |

## Region Growing - manual seed selection

Performs region growing on a given MHI from a manually selected seed point.

### Usage

- the script requires `<path_to_mhi>` to contain two files: `<data_set>_mhi.npy` and `<data_set>_mhi.png`
  For instance: when dataset is `ds1` then the files should be `ds1_mhi.npy`and `DS1_mhi.png`
- the seed can be set by clicking on the mhi or by providing the x and y coordinates from the command line.
- example run:

  ```
  python region_growing_manual_seed_selection.py \
      --dataset ds1 \
      --path-to-mhi /ds1/path/to/mhi \ 
      --track-nr 1 \
      --radius 5 \
      --threshold 5 \
      --n-values-to-ignore 3 \
      --seed-x 954 \
      --seed-y 110
  ```

    - After choosing the seedpoint you have to **press the space bar** key **to continue**.
    - If the seedpoint coordinates were provided from the command line, then just press the space bar key to continue.
      Any clicks will be ignored.
    - When the execution is finished the resulting track segment is show. To close the windows press the space bar
      again.
- results will be saved to `<output_dir>` (or per default to `./<data_set>_region_growing_results` &Dagger;)

### Parameters Overview

| Argument                | Short  | Required | Default Value | Description                                                                               |
|-------------------------|--------|----------|---------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--path-to-mhi`         | `-mhi` | Yes      | N/A           | path to the motion history image (MHI) file.                                              |
| `--dataset`             | `-d`   | Yes      | N/A           | name of the dataset of the MHI, used only for naming the resulting track segment.         |
| `--output-dir`          | `-o`   | No       | &Dagger;      | path to the directory where the results will be stored.                                   |
| `--track-nr`            | `-t`   | No       | `1`           | track number, used only for naming the resulting track segment (default: 1).              |
| `--radius`              | `-r`   | No       | `5`           | search radius for neighboring pixels (default: 5).                                        |
| `--threshold`           | -      | No       | `5`           | the time difference threshold for comparing two pixels (default: 5).                      |
| `--rejection-threshold` | -      | No       | `1`           | number of rejection votes required for a pixel to be excluded from a region (default: 1). |
| `--n-values-to-ignore`  | `-n`   | No       | `3`           | used to filter out the n most prominent values in the MHI (default: 3).                   | `-zj` |  |
| `--seed-x`              | `-x`   | No       | N/A           | x-coordinate of the seed point for the region growing.                                    | -     ||
| `--seed-y`              | `-y`   | No       | N/A           | y-coordinate of the seed point for the region growing.                                    |

## Z-Layer Selection

The script uses the output of previous steps along with the reconstructed holograms of the recorded experiment to find
the best estimate of the z coordinate of each blob on a given track segment.

### Usage

- example run:

  ```
  python z_layer_selection.py  \
      --dataset ds1 \
      --mhi-npy-file /ds1/path/to/ds1_mhi.npy \
      --blobs-file /ds1/blob_detection_results/detected_blobs.npy \
      --reconstructions /ds1/path/to/holograms/reconstructions \
      --tracks /ds1/region_growing_results/path/to/2dtracks \
      --z-start-plane -170 \
      --z-end-plane 26
  ```
- results will be saved to `<output_dir>/` (or per default to `./<dataset>_z_layer_selection_results` &Dagger;) as NumPy
  array files (`.npy`)
  Each point is itself an array of the form:

  `[x, y, z, timestamp, <diameter_of_detected_blob>]`

### Parameters Overview

| Argument                | Short  | Required | Default Value | Description                                                                                                                                                  |
|-------------------------|--------|----------|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--dataset`             | `-d`   | Yes      | N/A           | Name of the dataset of the MHI                                                                                                                               |
| `--mhi-npy-file`        | `-mhi` | Yes      | N/A           | Path to the motion history image (MHI) npy-file                                                                                                              |
| `--reconstructions`     | `-r`   | Yes      | N/A           | Path to reconstructions of the holograms - contains folders of all timepoints                                                                                |
| `--tracks`              | `-tr`  | Yes      | N/A           | Path to the 2D track segments, which are the results of region growing                                                                                       |
| `--blobs-file`          | `-b`   | Yes      | N/A           | Path to the detected blobs npy-file. The file is the result of blob_detection. The file contains the blobs of all timepoints regardless of any track segment |
| `--z-start-plane`       | `-zs`  | Yes      | N/A           | Z-plane start value**                                                                                                                                        |
| `--z-end-plane`         | `-ze`  | Yes      | N/A           | Z-plane end value**                                                                                                                                          |
| `--output-dir`          | `-o`   | No       | &Dagger;      | The directory to which the results will be stored                                                                                                            |
| `--mhi-time-tolerance`  | -      | No       | N/A           | MHI time tolerance - if not provided no filtering will take place.                                                                                           |
| `--min-diameter-size`   | -      | No       | `0`           | Blobs with smaller diameter size will not be considered                                                                                                      |
| `--zeros-padding-width` | -      | No       | `5`           | Zeros padding width of folder names of reconstructed timepoints                                                                                              |

** this should be the exact value used to calculate the may-Z projections. In future versions of this script, these
values will be read automatically.

## Region Growing - automatic seed selection

#### Usage

- example run:

```
python region_growing_automatic_seed_selection.py \
    --dataset ds1 \
    --mhi-npy-file /ds1/path/to/ds1_mhi.npy \
    --blobs-file /ds1/blob_detection_results/detected_blobs.npy \
    --output-dir /path/to/output \
    --radius 7 \
    --threshold 5 \
    --rejection-threshold 1 \
    --n-values-to-ignore 3 \
    --min-track-length 500
```

- results will be saved to `<output_dir>/` (or per default to `./<dataset>_region_growing_automatic_results` &Dagger;)

### Parameters Overview

| Argument                | Short  | Required | Default Value | Description                                                                                                                                                   |
|-------------------------|--------|----------|---------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--mhi-npy-file`        | `-mhi` | Yes      | N/A           | Path to the motion history image (MHI) npy-file.                                                                                                              |
| `--blobs-file`          | `-b`   | Yes      | N/A           | Path to the detected blobs npy-file. The file is the result of blob_detection. The file contains the blobs of all timepoints regardless of any track segment. |
| `--output-dir`          | `-o`   | No       | &Dagger;      | The directory to which the results will be stored.                                                                                                            |
| `--dataset`             | `-d`   | Yes      | N/A           | Name of the dataset of the MHI - used only for naming the resulting track segment.                                                                            |
| `--radius`              | `-r`   | No       | `5`           | Search radius for neighboring pixels.                                                                                                                         |
| `--threshold`           | -      | No       | `5`           | The time difference threshold for comparing two pixels.                                                                                                       |
| `--rejection-threshold` | -      | No       | `1`           | Number of rejection votes for a pixel to be excluded from a region.                                                                                           |
| `--n-values-to-ignore`  | `-n`   | No       | `3`           | Used to filter out the most prominent n values in the MHI.                                                                                                    |
| `--min-track-length`    | -      | No       | `500`         | Tracks smaller than the minimum track length (in pixel count) will be ignored.                                                                                |

## 3d plot

The script plots the output of the z-layer selection in 3D

### Usage

Set in line 15 the path of the file.
Adjust in line 26 the FOW according to the used optics.

## DBSCAN

The script performs a clustering additionally in the z axis and is useful if the output of the z-layerselection
apparently consists of too many tracks. The results strongly depended on the distance metric and the maximum distance
allowed for a point to be considered a part of a cluster. The clustered tracks are saved separetley each in own folders.

### Usage

- example run:

```
python dbscan.py \
    --track-3d ./some_3d_track.npy \
    --dbscan-eps 0.15 \
    --dbscan-min-samples 10
```


## Time filtering

After applying the z-layer selection - if the output is too noisy - this script could be useful.
It eliminates unrelated particles by comparing the time associated with each particle to the corresponding time value on
the MHI.

### Usage
- results will be saved to `<output_dir>/` (or per default to `./<dataset>_time_filtering_results` &Dagger;) as NumPy
  array files (`.npy`)
- example run:

```
python time_filtering.py \
    --dataset ds1 \
    --output-dir /path/to/output \
    --mhi-npy-file /path/to/ds1_mhi.npy \
    --track-2d /path/to/track_2d_nr_1_ds1.npy \
    --track-3d /path/to/track_3d_nr_1_ds1.npy \
    --mhi-time-tolerance 5
```

### Parameters Overview

| Argument               | Short   | Required | Default Value | Description                                                               |
|------------------------|---------|----------|---------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--dataset`             | `-d`   | Yes      | N/A           | Name of the dataset of the MHI - used only for naming the resulting track segment.                                                                            |
| `--mhi-npy-file`       | `-mhi`  | Yes      | N/A           | Path to the motion history image (MHI) npy-file.                          |
| `--track-2d`           | `-ts2d` | Yes      | N/A           | Path to the 2D track segment npy-file, which corresponds to the 3D track. |
| `--track-3d`           | `-ts3d` | Yes      | N/A           | Path to the 3D track segment npy-file, which will be filtered.            |
| `--mhi-time-tolerance` | -       | No       | `None`        | MHI time tolerance - if not provided no filtering will take place.        |
| `--output-dir`          | `-o`   | No       | &Dagger;      | The directory to which the results will be stored.                                                                                                            |

Commit message:

add dbscan cli-arguments to readme

README.md, after:

#### Repository for: A novel method for tracking microswimmers in 3D

The authors of the code in this repository are Hadi Albalkhi* and Max Riekeles*.
Contact: riekeles@tu-berlin.de

_* Both authors contributed to the code in equal shares._

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.8
- Python packages:
    - numpy
    - opencv2
    - matplotlib
- For generating the MHI refer to the [OWLS-repository](https://github.com/JPLMLIA/OWLS-Autonomy)
- Datasets described in the paper can be found here:
    - [Raw holograms frames of Bacillus Subtilis at different temperatures](https://doi.org/10.5061/dryad.ns1rn8pv6)
    - [Dataset for “Identifying and Characterizing Motile and Fluorescent Microorganisms in Microscopy Data Using Onboard Science Autonomy”](https://doi.org/10.48577/jpl.2KTVW5)

After the reconstructions of the holograms have been generated, a typical run of the code is:

1. Create maximum z-projections
2. Create MHI (with [OWLS-repository](https://github.com/JPLMLIA/OWLS-Autonomy)) from the maximum z-projections
3. Perform blob detection in the maximum z-projections at each time point
4. Apply region growing to the MHI (either manually or with automatic seedpoint selection)
5. Apply Z-layer selection
    1. apply DBSCAN if necessary.
    2. apply time filtering if necessary.
6. 3D Plot

## Max Z-Projection

Calculates the maximum projection through the Z stack of reconstructed holograms for the given range of timepoints.

### Usage

- the script assumes that `<reconstructions>`:
    - contains multiple folders for each timepoint of the recorded experiment.
    - each folder contains the reconstruction of the hologram at the corresponding timepoint.
    - the folder names are five-digit numbers  `xxxxx` (with leading zeros where needed) which represent the
      timestamps.
      The timestamps will be written to the resulting filenames and will be used in consequent processing steps (blob
      detection for instance).

- example run:
  ```
  python max_z_projections.py \
    --dataset ds1 --reconstructions /ds1/reconstructions \
    --output-dir /path/to/output \
    --z-start-plane -200 \
    --z-end-plane 200 \
    --end-timepoint 851
  ```
- results will be saved to `<output_dir>/` (or per default to `./<data_set>_max_z_projection_results` &Dagger;) and the
  max Z-projection filenames will be in the form:
  `max_z_projection_zs_<z_start_plane>_ze_<z_end_plane>_<z_plane_jump_steps>_<timestamp>.tif`

### Parameters Overview

| Argument                | Short | Required | Default Value | Description                                                                                |
|-------------------------|-------|----------|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--reconstructions`     | `-r`  | Yes      | N/A           | Path to reconstructions of the holograms - contains folders of all timepoints              |
| `--dataset`             | `-d`  | Yes      | N/A           | Name of the dataset of the recorded experiment - used only for naming the resulting files. |
| `--output-dir`          | `-o`  | No       | &Dagger;      | Path to the directory where the results will be stored                                     |
| `--start-timepoint`     | `-ts` | No       | `1`           | A number representing the start timepoint of the range to be considered                    |
| `--end-timepoint`       | `-te` | Yes      | N/A           | A number representing the end timepoint of the range to be considered                      |
| `--z-start-plane`       | `-zs` | Yes      | N/A           | Z-plane start value                                                                        |
| `--z-end-plane`         | `-ze` | Yes      | N/A           | Z-plane end value                                                                          |
| `--z-plane-jump-steps`  | `-zj` | No       | `1`           | Z-plane jump steps                                                                         |
| `--zeros-padding-width` | -     | No       | `5`           | Zeros padding width of folder names of reconstructed timepoints                            |

## Blob Detection

This script applies OpenCV SimpleBlobDetector on provided max Z-projection images and save the results as NumPy
array files (`.npy`).

### Usage

- the script requires `<max_z_projections>` to contain the max Z-projections image files with a specific naming format
  as described in max Z-projection above:
  `some_file_name_xxxxx.tif`
  where `xxxxx` is a five-digit number (with leading zeros where needed) which represents the timestamp.
    - this is important because the script will extract the timestamp i.e. the value of the time frame out of the
      filename.
- example run:

  ```
  python blob_detection.py \
      --dataset ds1 \
      --max-z-projections /ds1/projections 
  ```
- results will be saved to `<output_dir>/` (or per default to `./<data_set>_blob_detection_results` &Dagger;) as NumPy
  array files (`.npy`).
  Each blob is itself an array of the form:

  `[x, y, timestamp, <diameter_of_detected_blob>]`

### Parameters Overview

| Argument              | Short | Required | Default Value | Description                                                                                     |
|-----------------------|-------|----------|---------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--max-z-projections` | `-p`  | Yes      | N/A           | Path to the max Z-projection files of all time points.                                          |
| `--dataset`           | `-d`  | Yes      | N/A           | Name of the dataset of the MHI, used only for naming the resulting track segment.               |
| `--output-dir`        | `-o`  | No       | &Dagger;      | Path to the directory where the results will be stored.                                         |
| `--min-area`          | -     | No       | `60`          | Change the minimum area (in pixels) of blobs, smaller blobs will be filtered out (default: 60). |
| `--max-area`          | -     | No       | `300`         | Change the maximum area (in pixels) of blobs, larger blobs will be filtered out (default: 300). |
| `--max-threshold`     | -     | No       | `255`         | Change the maxThreshold value for openCV SimpleBlobDetector (default: 255).                     |

## Region Growing - manual seed selection

Performs region growing on a given MHI from a manually selected seed point.

### Usage

- the script requires `<path_to_mhi>` to contain two files: `<data_set>_mhi.npy` and `<data_set>_mhi.png`
  For instance: when dataset is `ds1` then the files should be `ds1_mhi.npy`and `DS1_mhi.png`
- the seed can be set by clicking on the mhi or by providing the x and y coordinates from the command line.
- example run:

  ```
  python region_growing_manual_seed_selection.py \
      --dataset ds1 \
      --path-to-mhi /ds1/path/to/mhi \ 
      --track-nr 1 \
      --radius 5 \
      --threshold 5 \
      --n-values-to-ignore 3 \
      --seed-x 954 \
      --seed-y 110
  ```

    - After choosing the seedpoint you have to **press the space bar** key **to continue**.
    - If the seedpoint coordinates were provided from the command line, then just press the space bar key to continue.
      Any clicks will be ignored.
    - When the execution is finished the resulting track segment is show. To close the windows press the space bar
      again.
- results will be saved to `<output_dir>` (or per default to `./<data_set>_region_growing_results` &Dagger;)

### Parameters Overview

| Argument                | Short  | Required | Default Value | Description                                                                               |
|-------------------------|--------|----------|---------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--path-to-mhi`         | `-mhi` | Yes      | N/A           | path to the motion history image (MHI) file.                                              |
| `--dataset`             | `-d`   | Yes      | N/A           | name of the dataset of the MHI, used only for naming the resulting track segment.         |
| `--output-dir`          | `-o`   | No       | &Dagger;      | path to the directory where the results will be stored.                                   |
| `--track-nr`            | `-t`   | No       | `1`           | track number, used only for naming the resulting track segment (default: 1).              |
| `--radius`              | `-r`   | No       | `5`           | search radius for neighboring pixels (default: 5).                                        |
| `--threshold`           | -      | No       | `5`           | the time difference threshold for comparing two pixels (default: 5).                      |
| `--rejection-threshold` | -      | No       | `1`           | number of rejection votes required for a pixel to be excluded from a region (default: 1). |
| `--n-values-to-ignore`  | `-n`   | No       | `3`           | used to filter out the n most prominent values in the MHI (default: 3).                   | `-zj` |  |
| `--seed-x`              | `-x`   | No       | N/A           | x-coordinate of the seed point for the region growing.                                    | -     ||
| `--seed-y`              | `-y`   | No       | N/A           | y-coordinate of the seed point for the region growing.                                    |

## Z-Layer Selection

The script uses the output of previous steps along with the reconstructed holograms of the recorded experiment to find
the best estimate of the z coordinate of each blob on a given track segment.

### Usage

- example run:

  ```
  python z_layer_selection.py  \
      --dataset ds1 \
      --mhi-npy-file /ds1/path/to/ds1_mhi.npy \
      --blobs-file /ds1/blob_detection_results/detected_blobs.npy \
      --reconstructions /ds1/path/to/holograms/reconstructions \
      --tracks /ds1/region_growing_results/path/to/2dtracks \
      --z-start-plane -170 \
      --z-end-plane 26
  ```
- results will be saved to `<output_dir>/` (or per default to `./<dataset>_z_layer_selection_results` &Dagger;) as NumPy
  array files (`.npy`)
  Each point is itself an array of the form:

  `[x, y, z, timestamp, <diameter_of_detected_blob>]`

### Parameters Overview

| Argument                | Short  | Required | Default Value | Description                                                                                                                                                  |
|-------------------------|--------|----------|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--dataset`             | `-d`   | Yes      | N/A           | Name of the dataset of the MHI                                                                                                                               |
| `--mhi-npy-file`        | `-mhi` | Yes      | N/A           | Path to the motion history image (MHI) npy-file                                                                                                              |
| `--reconstructions`     | `-r`   | Yes      | N/A           | Path to reconstructions of the holograms - contains folders of all timepoints                                                                                |
| `--tracks`              | `-tr`  | Yes      | N/A           | Path to the 2D track segments, which are the results of region growing                                                                                       |
| `--blobs-file`          | `-b`   | Yes      | N/A           | Path to the detected blobs npy-file. The file is the result of blob_detection. The file contains the blobs of all timepoints regardless of any track segment |
| `--z-start-plane`       | `-zs`  | Yes      | N/A           | Z-plane start value**                                                                                                                                        |
| `--z-end-plane`         | `-ze`  | Yes      | N/A           | Z-plane end value**                                                                                                                                          |
| `--output-dir`          | `-o`   | No       | &Dagger;      | The directory to which the results will be stored                                                                                                            |
| `--mhi-time-tolerance`  | -      | No       | N/A           | MHI time tolerance - if not provided no filtering will take place.                                                                                           |
| `--min-diameter-size`   | -      | No       | `0`           | Blobs with smaller diameter size will not be considered                                                                                                      |
| `--zeros-padding-width` | -      | No       | `5`           | Zeros padding width of folder names of reconstructed timepoints                                                                                              |

** this should be the exact value used to calculate the may-Z projections. In future versions of this script, these
values will be read automatically.

## Region Growing - automatic seed selection

#### Usage

- example run:

```
python region_growing_automatic_seed_selection.py \
    --dataset ds1 \
    --mhi-npy-file /ds1/path/to/ds1_mhi.npy \
    --blobs-file /ds1/blob_detection_results/detected_blobs.npy \
    --output-dir /path/to/output \
    --radius 7 \
    --threshold 5 \
    --rejection-threshold 1 \
    --n-values-to-ignore 3 \
    --min-track-length 500
```

- results will be saved to `<output_dir>/` (or per default to `./<dataset>_region_growing_automatic_results` &Dagger;)

### Parameters Overview

| Argument                | Short  | Required | Default Value | Description                                                                                                                                                   |
|-------------------------|--------|----------|---------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--mhi-npy-file`        | `-mhi` | Yes      | N/A           | Path to the motion history image (MHI) npy-file.                                                                                                              |
| `--blobs-file`          | `-b`   | Yes      | N/A           | Path to the detected blobs npy-file. The file is the result of blob_detection. The file contains the blobs of all timepoints regardless of any track segment. |
| `--output-dir`          | `-o`   | No       | &Dagger;      | The directory to which the results will be stored.                                                                                                            |
| `--dataset`             | `-d`   | Yes      | N/A           | Name of the dataset of the MHI - used only for naming the resulting track segment.                                                                            |
| `--radius`              | `-r`   | No       | `5`           | Search radius for neighboring pixels.                                                                                                                         |
| `--threshold`           | -      | No       | `5`           | The time difference threshold for comparing two pixels.                                                                                                       |
| `--rejection-threshold` | -      | No       | `1`           | Number of rejection votes for a pixel to be excluded from a region.                                                                                           |
| `--n-values-to-ignore`  | `-n`   | No       | `3`           | Used to filter out the most prominent n values in the MHI.                                                                                                    |
| `--min-track-length`    | -      | No       | `500`         | Tracks smaller than the minimum track length (in pixel count) will be ignored.                                                                                |

## 3d plot

The script plots the output of the z-layer selection in 3D

### Usage

In line `8`, set the variable `centers_max_z` to the path to the 3D track npy-file, which will be plotted.

## DBSCAN

The script performs a clustering additionally in the z axis and is useful if the output of the z-layerselection
apparently consists of too many tracks. The results strongly depended on the distance metric and the maximum distance
allowed for a point to be considered a part of a cluster. The clustered tracks are saved separetley each in own folders.

### Usage

- example run:

```
python dbscan.py \
    --track-3d ./some_3d_track.npy \
    --dbscan-eps 0.15 \
    --dbscan-min-samples 10
```

### Parameters Overview
| Argument               | Short   | Required | Default Value | Description                           |
|------------------------|---------|----------|---------------|---------------------------------------|
| `--track-3d`           | `-ts3d` | Yes      | N/A           | Path to the 3D track segment npy-file |
| `--dbscan-eps`         | `-eps`  | No       | `0.15`        | DBSCAN EPS parameter                  |
| `--dbscan-min-samples` | `-ms`   | No       | `10`          | DBSCAN min_samples parameter          |

## Time filtering

After applying the z-layer selection - if the output is too noisy - this script could be useful.
It eliminates unrelated particles by comparing the time associated with each particle to the corresponding time value on
the MHI.

### Usage

- results will be saved to `<output_dir>/` (or per default to `./<dataset>_time_filtering_results` &Dagger;) as NumPy
  array files (`.npy`)
- example run:

```
python time_filtering.py \
    --dataset ds1 \
    --output-dir /path/to/output \
    --mhi-npy-file /path/to/ds1_mhi.npy \
    --track-2d /path/to/track_2d_nr_1_ds1.npy \
    --track-3d /path/to/track_3d_nr_1_ds1.npy \
    --mhi-time-tolerance 5
```

### Parameters Overview

| Argument               | Short   | Required | Default Value | Description                                                                        |
|------------------------|---------|----------|---------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--dataset`            | `-d`    | Yes      | N/A           | Name of the dataset of the MHI - used only for naming the resulting track segment. |
| `--mhi-npy-file`       | `-mhi`  | Yes      | N/A           | Path to the motion history image (MHI) npy-file.                                   |
| `--track-2d`           | `-ts2d` | Yes      | N/A           | Path to the 2D track segment npy-file, which corresponds to the 3D track.          |
| `--track-3d`           | `-ts3d` | Yes      | N/A           | Path to the 3D track segment npy-file, which will be filtered.                     |
| `--mhi-time-tolerance` | -       | No       | `None`        | MHI time tolerance - if not provided no filtering will take place.                 |
| `--output-dir`         | `-o`    | No       | &Dagger;      | The directory to which the results will be stored.                                 |
